README.md, before:

What Is This?
=============

**Smart bash prompt** is a pluggable system to show various context information in a command prompt.
For example if you are in git working copy, your command prompt will look like this:

    zaufi@gentop /work/GitHub/smart-prompt|git:master| $

for `/boot` it will be like

    zaufi@gentop /boot|3.10.9-gentoo-z1:3 days, 13:15| $

for my `/usr/src/linux`

    zaufi@gentop /usr/src/linux|link to: linux-3.10.10-gentoo| $

and so on... See [example wiki page](https://github.com/zaufi/smart-prompt/wiki)


The system consists of two different parts:
- a pluggable engine, which loads _context checkers_ and form the resulting `PS1`;
- a _context checker_ is a small script to display particular info in a command prompt depending on conditions.


Context Checker Details
-----------------------

Context checkers searched in the following directories:
- `[INSTALL_PREFIX]/libexec/smart-prompt/context-checkers.d`
- `~/.smart-prompt.d`

Context checker is a simple script aimed to do the two things:
- check if current context is suitable to display some extra info
- add extra info to the `PS1`


Context checkers should be named in the following format:

    NNname.sh

where `NN` is a numeric value of a loading priority.

Typical context checker consists of two functions: 
* predicate to decide whether some aux info should be displayed. It must return numeric code, where `0` stands for _true_
 and _false_ is everything else. It **must** be named in according the following format: `_NN_some_name`, where `NN` same
 (or close to) as the number in the file name. This needed to conserve order in which checkers will be applied/tried.
* the second function should `printf` (it can do `echo` as well but I don't recommend this due some limitations) any aux
  info it wants to put in the middle (between `username@host` and `path` parts) of a `PS1`. It can use colors (ANSI escape 
  sequences). See particular context checker for details (most of them are simple and trivial).

Finally checker module should **register** provided functions. Do do so near the end of any checker module you may find
the following:

    function _NN_some_name() { return ... }

    function _show_some_aux_info()
    {
        printf "smth"
    }

    SMART_PROMPT_PLUGINS[_NN_some_name]=_show_some_aux_info

`SMART_PROMPT_PLUGINS` is a global associative array, where _key_ is a predicate to check, and _value_ is a function
to execute.


Limitations
-----------

* Nowadays I don't care about colorless terminals...

Commit message:

add install section to README. introduce segments delimiter 〉

README.md, after:

What Is This?
=============

**Smart bash prompt** is a pluggable system to show various context information in a command prompt.
The initial idea was to create an extensible engine to have a dynamically changing command prompt instead
of <strike>boring</strike> static one, capable to display some aux info depending on a particular location 
and/or condition.

For example if you are in git working copy, your command prompt will look like this:

    zaufi@gentop /work/GitHub/smart-prompt|git:master| $

for `/boot` it will be like

    zaufi@gentop /boot|3.10.9-gentoo-z1:3 days, 13:15| $

for my `/usr/src/linux`

    zaufi@gentop /usr/src/linux|link to: linux-3.10.10-gentoo| $

and so on... See [example wiki page](https://github.com/zaufi/smart-prompt/wiki)


The system consists of two different parts:
- a pluggable engine, which loads _context checkers_ and form the resulting `PS1`;
- a _context checker_ is a small script to display particular info in a command prompt depending on conditions.


How To Install
--------------

As one may notice `[cmake](http://cmake.org)` needed to install (and make source tarball of) this package.
It helps (lazy me) to do it like this:

    $ tar -zxf smart-prompt-X.Y.Z-Sources.tar.gz
    $ cd smart-prompt-X.Y.Z-Sources
    $ cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr .
    $ sudo make install

But if you brave enough you can just copy (just) **needed** files to their locations.
Later (maybe) I'll write a simple `Makefile` to get rid of `cmake` dependency ;-)


Context Checker Details
-----------------------

Context checkers searched in the following directories:
- `[INSTALL_PREFIX]/libexec/smart-prompt/context-checkers.d`
- `~/.smart-prompt.d`

Context checker is a simple script aimed to do the two things:
- check if current context is suitable to display some extra info
- add extra info to the `PS1`


Context checkers should be named in the following format:

    NNname.sh

where `NN` is a numeric value of a loading priority.

Typical context checker consists of two functions: 
* predicate to decide whether some aux info should be displayed. It must return numeric code, where `0` stands for _true_
 and _false_ is everything else. It **must** be named in according the following format: `_NN_some_name`, where `NN` same
 (or close to) as the number in the file name. This needed to conserve order in which checkers will be applied/tried.
* the second function should `printf` (it can do `echo` as well but I don't recommend this due some limitations) any aux
  info it wants to put in the middle (between `username@host` and `path` parts) of a `PS1`. It can use colors (ANSI escape 
  sequences). See particular context checker for details (most of them are simple and trivial).

Finally checker module should **register** provided functions. Do do so near the end of any checker module you may find
the following:

    function _NN_some_name() { return ... }

    function _show_some_aux_info()
    {
        printf "smth"
    }

    SMART_PROMPT_PLUGINS[_NN_some_name]=_show_some_aux_info

`SMART_PROMPT_PLUGINS` is a global associative array, where _key_ is a predicate to check, and _value_ is a function
to execute.


Limitations
-----------

* Nowadays I don't care about colorless terminals...
